---
layout: blog
title: IOCs
---


<div id="main" class="s-content__main large-8 column">
    <article class="entry">

        <header class="entry__header">

            <h2 class="entry__title h1">
                IOCs
            </h2>        
        </header>
        
        <div class="entry__content">
        <p>Indicators of compromise (IOCs) are signs that a system or network may have been compromised by a cyber threat. These indicators can take many forms, including changes to system files, unusual network traffic, or other anomalies that may indicate that a system has been accessed or compromised.</p>

        <p>One of the key challenges of detecting and responding to cyber threats is the need to identify the signs that a system has been compromised. This is where IOCs come in. By identifying specific indicators that may indicate a threat, organizations can more effectively detect and respond to cyber threats.</p>

        <p>There are several different types of IOCs that organizations may need to be aware of, including:
        <ul>
            <li>Network-based IOCs: These are indicators that are related to network activity, such as unusual traffic patterns or connections to known malicious IP addresses.</li>
            <li>Host-based IOCs: These are indicators that are related to changes or abnormalities on a specific system, such as changes to system files or the presence of malicious software.</li>
            <li>Behavioural-based IOCs: These are indicators that are related to the behaviour of a system or user, such as unusual login patterns or unexpected changes to system settings.</li>
        </ul></p>
        <p>In order to effectively identify and respond to IOCs, it is important for organizations to have a robust incident response plan in place. This plan should outline the steps that should be taken in the event of a suspected compromise, including steps for identifying and mitigating the threat, as well as for recovering from the incident.</p>

        <p>One of the key challenges of managing IOCs is the need to stay up-to-date with the latest threats and indicators. To address this, many organizations rely on threat intelligence feeds and other sources of information to stay informed about the latest threats and indicators.</p>

        <p>Indicators of compromise are a crucial part of any cybersecurity strategy. By identifying and responding to these indicators, organizations can more effectively detect and respond to cyber threats, and reduce the risk of data breaches and other incidents.</p>

        </div> 

    </article> <!-- end entry -->

</div> <!-- end main -->  