---
layout: blog
title: Server Side Request Forgery
---

<div id="main" class="s-content__main large-8 column">
    <article class="entry">

        <header class="entry__header">

            <h2 class="entry__title h1">
                Server Side Request Forgery
            </h2>        
        </header>
        
        <div class="entry__content">

        <p>Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF) is a type of cyber attack that involves tricking a server into making unauthorized requests to other servers or internal network resources. This can allow the attacker to gain access to sensitive data or to perform other actions on the target system.</p>

        <p>SSRF attacks typically involve an attacker manipulating a web application to send a request to an internal network resource, such as a database server or file server. The attacker may do this by exploiting a vulnerability in the way that the web application processes user-supplied input, or by using other techniques to trick the web application into sending the request.</p>

        <p>Here is an example of a simple SSRF attack:
        <ul>
            <li>The attacker identifies a vulnerable web application that allows users to upload images.</li>
            <li>The attacker creates a malicious image file that includes a request to an internal network resource, such as a database server.</li>
            <li>The attacker uploads the malicious image file to the web application, causing the web application to send the request to the internal network resource.</li>
            <li>The internal network resource processes the request and returns the requested data, which the attacker can then access.</li>
        </ul></p>

        <p>SSRF attacks can have serious consequences for organizations. In addition to the potential loss or theft of sensitive data, SSRF attacks can allow attackers to perform other actions on the target system, such as launching distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks or accessing other internal network resources.</p>

        <p>To protect against SSRF attacks, organizations must ensure that their web applications are properly designed and implemented. This may include implementing input validation and sanitization, using secure coding practices, and regularly applying security patches and updates to the organization's web applications.</p>

        <p>It is also important for organizations to have robust incident response and recovery processes in place in the event of a successful SSRF attack. This may include having backups of sensitive data that can be used to restore the organization's systems, and having a plan in place for communicating with customers and other stakeholders in the event of a data breach.</p>
        </div> 

    </article> <!-- end entry -->

</div> <!-- end main -->